Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Alice "without pictures or
conversation?"

So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure
of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so
VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh dear!
Oh dear! I shall be late!" (when she thought it over afterwards, it
occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the time
it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH
OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on,
Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had
never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch
to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the field
after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large
rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
in the world she was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep
well.

Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was
going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what
she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as
she passed; it was labelled "ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear
of killing somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as
she fell past it.

"Well!" thought Alice to herself, "after such a fall as this, I shall
think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at
home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off the top
of the house!" (Which was very likely true.)

Down, down, down. Would the fall NEVER come to an end! "I wonder how
many miles I've fallen by this time?" she said aloud. "I must be getting
somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four
thousand miles down, I think--" (for, you see, Alice had learnt several
things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this
was not a VERY good opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there
was no one to listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over)
"--yes, that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?" (Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or
Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)

Presently she began again. "I wonder if I shall fall right THROUGH the
earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with
their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think--" (she was rather glad
there WAS no one listening, this time, as it didn't sound at all the
right word) "--but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country
is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?" (and
she tried to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) "And what an
ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking! No, it'll never do to
ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere."

Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
talking again. "Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think!"
(Dinah was the cat.) "I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no
mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very
like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?" And here Alice
began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy
sort of way, "Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?" and sometimes, "Do
bats eat cats?" for, you see, as she couldn't answer either question,
it didn't much matter which way she put it. She felt that she was dozing
off, and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with
Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, "Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:
did you ever eat a bat?" when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon
a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment:
she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another
long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it.
There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and
was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, "Oh my ears
and whiskers, how late it's getting!" She was close behind it when she
turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging
from the roof.

There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when
Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every
door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to
get out again.

Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid
glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice's
first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall;
but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small,
but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second
time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the
little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
much larger than a rat-hole: she knelt down and looked along the passage
into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of
that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and
those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through the
doorway; "and even if my head would go through," thought poor Alice, "it
would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could
shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only know how to begin."
For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately,
that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really
impossible.

There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went
back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at
any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this
time she found a little bottle on it, ("which certainly was not here
before," said Alice,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper
label, with the words "DRINK ME" beautifully printed on it in large
letters.

It was all very well to say "Drink me," but the wise little Alice was
not going to do THAT in a hurry. "No, I'll look first," she said, "and
see whether it's marked "poison" or not'; for she had read several nice
little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild
beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they WOULD not remember
the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot
poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never
forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked "poison," it is
almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.

However, this bottle was NOT marked "poison," so Alice ventured to taste
it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour
of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot
buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off.







"What a curious feeling!" said Alice; "I must be shutting up like a
telescope."

And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face
brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going
through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she
waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further:
she felt a little nervous about this; "for it might end, you know," said
Alice to herself, "in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder
what I should be like then?" And she tried to fancy what the flame of a
candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the
door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she
went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach
it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery;
and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing
sat down and cried.

"Come, there's no use in crying like that!" said Alice to herself,
rather sharply; "I advise you to leave off this minute!" She generally
gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it),
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into
her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having
cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself,
for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people.
"But it's no use now," thought poor Alice, "to pretend to be two people!
Why, there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable person!"

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table:
she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words
"EAT ME" were beautifully marked in currants. "Well, I'll eat it," said
Alice, "and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it
makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I'll
get into the garden, and I don't care which happens!"

She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, "Which way? Which
way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was
growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same
size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice
had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way
things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on
in the common way.

So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.












"Curiouser and curiouser!" cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English); "now I'm
opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!"
(for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of
sight, they were getting so far off). "Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder
who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I'm sure
_I_ shan't be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble
myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;--but I must be
kind to them," thought Alice, "or perhaps they won't walk the way I want
to go! Let me see: I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas."

And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it. "They must
go by the carrier," she thought; "and how funny it'll seem, sending
presents to one's own feet! And how odd the directions will look!

     ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
       HEARTHRUG,
         NEAR THE FENDER,
           (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!"

Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was
now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden
key and hurried off to the garden door.

Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more
hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself," said Alice, "a great girl like
you," (she might well say this), "to go on crying in this way! Stop this
moment, I tell you!" But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of
tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches
deep and reaching half down the hall.

After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in
one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great
hurry, muttering to himself as he came, "Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess!
Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting!" Alice felt so
desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, "If you please, sir--"
The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan,
and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.

Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking: "Dear, dear! How
queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual.
I wonder if I've been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the
same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a
little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who
in the world am I? Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!" And she began thinking
over all the children she knew that were of the same age as herself, to
see if she could have been changed for any of them.

"I'm sure I'm not Ada," she said, "for her hair goes in such long
ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I can't
be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a
very little! Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I, and--oh dear, how puzzling
it all is! I'll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me
see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and
four times seven is--oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate!
However, the Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and
Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain! I must have been changed for
Mabel! I'll try and say "How doth the little--"" and she crossed her
hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it,
but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the
same as they used to do:--

     "How doth the little crocodile
      Improve his shining tail,
     And pour the waters of the Nile
      On every golden scale!

     "How cheerfully he seems to grin,
      How neatly spread his claws,
     And welcome little fishes in
      With gently smiling jaws!"

"I'm sure those are not the right words," said poor Alice, and her eyes
filled with tears again as she went on, "I must be Mabel after all, and
I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to
no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I've
made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here! It'll be no
use their putting their heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!" I
shall only look up and say "Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then,
if I like being that person, I'll come up: if not, I'll stay down here
till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!" cried Alice, with a sudden burst
of tears, "I do wish they WOULD put their heads down! I am so VERY tired
of being all alone here!"

As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see
that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little white kid gloves while
she was talking. "How CAN I have done that?" she thought. "I must
be growing small again." She got up and went to the table to measure
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now
about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found
out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped
it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

"That WAS a narrow escape!" said Alice, a good deal frightened at the
sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence; "and
now for the garden!" and she ran with all speed back to the little door:
but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was
lying on the glass table as before, "and things are worse than ever,"
thought the poor child, "for I never was so small as this before, never!
And I declare it's too bad, that it is!"

As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash!
she was up to her chin in salt water. Her first idea was that she
had somehow fallen into the sea, "and in that case I can go back by
railway," she said to herself. (Alice had been to the seaside once in
her life, and had come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go
to on the English coast you find a number of bathing machines in the
sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row
of lodging houses, and behind them a railway station.) However, she soon
made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she
was nine feet high.

"I wish I hadn't cried so much!" said Alice, as she swam about, trying
to find her way out. "I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by
being drowned in my own tears! That WILL be a queer thing, to be sure!
However, everything is queer to-day."

Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way
off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought
it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small
she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had
slipped in like herself.

"Would it be of any use, now," thought Alice, "to speak to this mouse?
Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very
likely it can talk: at any rate, there's no harm in trying." So she
began: "O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired
of swimming about here, O Mouse!" (Alice thought this must be the right
way of speaking to a mouse: she had never done such a thing before, but
she remembered having seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, "A mouse--of
a mouse--to a mouse--a mouse--O mouse!") The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes,
but it said nothing.

"Perhaps it doesn't understand English," thought Alice; "I daresay it's
a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror." (For, with all
her knowledge of history, Alice had no very clear notion how long ago
anything had happened.) So she began again: "Ou est ma chatte?" which
was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a
sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.
"Oh, I beg your pardon!" cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt
the poor animal's feelings. "I quite forgot you didn't like cats."

"Not like cats!" cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. "Would
YOU like cats if you were me?"

"Well, perhaps not," said Alice in a soothing tone: "don't be angry
about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you'd
take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet
thing," Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the
pool, "and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and
washing her face--and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's
such a capital one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!" cried
Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she
felt certain it must be really offended. "We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not."

"We indeed!" cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his
tail. "As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always HATED
cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't let me hear the name again!"

"I won't indeed!" said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of
conversation. "Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?" The Mouse did not
answer, so Alice went on eagerly: "There is such a nice little dog near
our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you
know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it'll fetch things when
you throw them, and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts
of things--I can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer,
you know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds! He
says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!" cried Alice in a sorrowful
tone, "I'm afraid I've offended it again!" For the Mouse was swimming
away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in
the pool as it went.

So she called softly after it, "Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we
won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't like them!" When the
Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its
face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low
trembling voice, "Let us get to the shore, and then I'll tell you my
history, and you'll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs."

It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the
birds and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo,
a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led the
way, and the whole party swam to the shore.






They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank--the
birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close
to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.

The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural
to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had
known them all her life. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the
Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, "I am older than
you, and must know better'; and this Alice would not allow without
knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its
age, there was no more to be said.

At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them,
called out, "Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! I'LL soon make you
dry enough!" They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse
in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt
sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.

"Ahem!" said the Mouse with an important air, "are you all ready? This
is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! "William
the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted
to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much
accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of
Mercia and Northumbria--""

"Ugh!" said the Lory, with a shiver.

"I beg your pardon!" said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: "Did
you speak?"

"Not I!" said the Lory hastily.

"I thought you did," said the Mouse. "--I proceed. "Edwin and Morcar,
the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand,
the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable--""

"Found WHAT?" said the Duck.

"Found IT," the Mouse replied rather crossly: "of course you know what
"it" means."

"I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing," said the
Duck: "it's generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the
archbishop find?"

The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, ""--found
it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the
crown. William's conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his
Normans--" How are you getting on now, my dear?" it continued, turning
to Alice as it spoke.

"As wet as ever," said Alice in a melancholy tone: "it doesn't seem to
dry me at all."

"In that case," said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, "I move
that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic
remedies--"

"Speak English!" said the Eaglet. "I don't know the meaning of half
those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either!" And
the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds
tittered audibly.

"What I was going to say," said the Dodo in an offended tone, "was, that
the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race."

"What IS a Caucus-race?" said Alice; not that she wanted much to know,
but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY ought to speak,
and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

"Why," said the Dodo, "the best way to explain it is to do it." (And, as
you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell
you how the Dodo managed it.)

First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, ("the exact
shape doesn't matter," it said,) and then all the party were placed
along the course, here and there. There was no "One, two, three, and
away," but they began running when they liked, and left off when they
liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However,
when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again,
the Dodo suddenly called out "The race is over!" and they all crowded
round it, panting, and asking, "But who has won?"

This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought,
and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead
(the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures
of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo said,
"EVERYBODY has won, and all must have prizes."

"But who is to give the prizes?" quite a chorus of voices asked.

"Why, SHE, of course," said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger;
and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused
way, "Prizes! Prizes!"

Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her
pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had
not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one
a-piece all round.

"But she must have a prize herself, you know," said the Mouse.

"Of course," the Dodo replied very gravely. "What else have you got in
your pocket?" he went on, turning to Alice.

"Only a thimble," said Alice sadly.

"Hand it over here," said the Dodo.

Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly
presented the thimble, saying "We beg your acceptance of this elegant
thimble'; and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave
that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not think of anything
to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she
could.

The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and
confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste
theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back.
However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and
begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

"You promised to tell me your history, you know," said Alice, "and why
it is you hate--C and D," she added in a whisper, half afraid that it
would be offended again.

"Mine is a long and a sad tale!" said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and
sighing.

"It IS a long tail, certainly," said Alice, looking down with wonder at
the Mouse's tail; "but why do you call it sad?" And she kept on puzzling
about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the tale was
something like this:--

         "Fury said to a
         mouse, That he
        met in the
       house,
     "Let us
      both go to
       law: I will
        prosecute
         YOU.--Come,
           I'll take no
           denial; We
          must have a
        trial: For
      really this
     morning I've
    nothing
    to do."
     Said the
      mouse to the
       cur, "Such
        a trial,
         dear Sir,
            With
          no jury
        or judge,
       would be
      wasting
      our
      breath."
       "I'll be
        judge, I'll
         be jury,"
            Said
         cunning
          old Fury:
          "I'll
          try the
            whole
            cause,
              and
           condemn
           you
          to
           death.""


"You are not attending!" said the Mouse to Alice severely. "What are you
thinking of?"

"I beg your pardon," said Alice very humbly: "you had got to the fifth
bend, I think?"

"I had NOT!" cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

"A knot!" said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking
anxiously about her. "Oh, do let me help to undo it!"

"I shall do nothing of the sort," said the Mouse, getting up and walking
away. "You insult me by talking such nonsense!"

"I didn't mean it!" pleaded poor Alice. "But you're so easily offended,
you know!"

The Mouse only growled in reply.

"Please come back and finish your story!" Alice called after it; and the
others all joined in chorus, "Yes, please do!" but the Mouse only shook
its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.

"What a pity it wouldn't stay!" sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite
out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her
daughter "Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose
YOUR temper!" "Hold your tongue, Ma!" said the young Crab, a little
snappishly. "You're enough to try the patience of an oyster!"

"I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!" said Alice aloud, addressing
nobody in particular. "She'd soon fetch it back!"

"And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?" said the
Lory.

Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet:
"Dinah's our cat. And she's such a capital one for catching mice you
can't think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why,
she'll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!"

This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the
birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up very
carefully, remarking, "I really must be getting home; the night-air
doesn't suit my throat!" and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to
its children, "Come away, my dears! It's high time you were all in bed!"
On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

"I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!" she said to herself in a melancholy
tone. "Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm sure she's the best
cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you
any more!" And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very
lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard
a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up
eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming
back to finish his story.






It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard
it muttering to itself "The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh
my fur and whiskers! She'll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are
ferrets! Where CAN I have dropped them, I wonder?" Alice guessed in a
moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves,
and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her swim in
the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door,
had vanished completely.

Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
called out to her in an angry tone, "Why, Mary Ann, what ARE you doing
out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan!
Quick, now!" And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once
in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it
had made.

"He took me for his housemaid," she said to herself as she ran. "How
surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am! But I'd better take him
his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them." As she said this, she
came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass
plate with the name "W. RABBIT" engraved upon it. She went in without
knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the
real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the
fan and gloves.

"How queer it seems," Alice said to herself, "to be going messages for
a rabbit! I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on messages next!" And she
began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: ""Miss Alice! Come
here directly, and get ready for your walk!" "Coming in a minute,
nurse! But I've got to see that the mouse doesn't get out." Only I don't
think," Alice went on, "that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it
began ordering people about like that!"

By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table
in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs
of tiny white kid gloves: she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves,
and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little
bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label this time
with the words "DRINK ME," but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it
to her lips. "I know SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen," she said
to herself, "whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what
this bottle does. I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for really
I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!"

It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had
drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling,
and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put
down the bottle, saying to herself "That's quite enough--I hope I shan't
grow any more--As it is, I can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't
drunk quite so much!"

Alas! it was too late to wish that! She went on growing, and growing,
and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there
was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with
one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head.
Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out
of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself "Now I
can do no more, whatever happens. What WILL become of me?"

Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect,
and she grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there
seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room
again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

"It was much pleasanter at home," thought poor Alice, "when one wasn't
always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and
rabbits. I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit-hole--and yet--and
yet--it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what
CAN have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that
kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!
There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I
grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now," she added in a sorrowful
tone; "at least there's no room to grow up any more HERE."

"But then," thought Alice, "shall I NEVER get any older than I am
now? That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--but
then--always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn't like THAT!"

"Oh, you foolish Alice!" she answered herself. "How can you learn
lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no room at all
for any lesson-books!"

And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making
quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard
a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

"Mary Ann! Mary Ann!" said the voice. "Fetch me my gloves this moment!"
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was
the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the
house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large
as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.

Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as
the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed hard against it,
that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself "Then I'll
go round and get in at the window."

"THAT you won't" thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied
she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her
hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything,
but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass,
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.

Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--'Pat! Pat! Where are you?" And
then a voice she had never heard before, "Sure then I'm here! Digging
for apples, yer honour!"

"Digging for apples, indeed!" said the Rabbit angrily. "Here! Come and
help me out of THIS!" (Sounds of more broken glass.)

"Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?"

"Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!" (He pronounced it "arrum.")

"An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole
window!"

"Sure, it does, yer honour: but it's an arm for all that."

"Well, it's got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!"

There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers
now and then; such as, "Sure, I don't like it, yer honour, at all, at
all!" "Do as I tell you, you coward!" and at last she spread out her
hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were
TWO little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. "What a number of
cucumber-frames there must be!" thought Alice. "I wonder what they'll do
next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD! I'm
sure I don't want to stay in here any longer!"

She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a
rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices
all talking together: she made out the words: "Where's the other
ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one; Bill's got the other--Bill!
fetch it here, lad!--Here, put "em up at this corner--No, tie "em
together first--they don't reach half high enough yet--Oh! they'll
do well enough; don't be particular--Here, Bill! catch hold of this
rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind that loose slate--Oh, it's coming
down! Heads below!" (a loud crash)--'Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I
fancy--Who's to go down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I
won't, then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!"

"Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?" said Alice to
herself. "Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn't be in
Bill's place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but
I THINK I can kick a little!"

She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited
till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what sort it was)
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her: then,
saying to herself "This is Bill," she gave one sharp kick, and waited to
see what would happen next.

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of "There goes Bill!"
then the Rabbit's voice along--'Catch him, you by the hedge!" then
silence, and then another confusion of voices--'Hold up his head--Brandy
now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell
us all about it!"

Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, ("That's Bill," thought
Alice,) "Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm better now--but I'm
a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know is, something comes at me
like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!"

"So you did, old fellow!" said the others.

"We must burn the house down!" said the Rabbit's voice; and Alice called
out as loud as she could, "If you do. I'll set Dinah at you!"

There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, "I
wonder what they WILL do next! If they had any sense, they'd take the
roof off." After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and
Alice heard the Rabbit say, "A barrowful will do, to begin with."

"A barrowful of WHAT?" thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt,
for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the
window, and some of them hit her in the face. "I'll put a stop to this,"
she said to herself, and shouted out, "You'd better not do that again!"
which produced another dead silence.

Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into
little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her
head. "If I eat one of these cakes," she thought, "it's sure to make
SOME change in my size; and as it can't possibly make me larger, it must
make me smaller, I suppose."

So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she
began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through
the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little
animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was
in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it
something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she
appeared; but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself
safe in a thick wood.

"The first thing I've got to do," said Alice to herself, as she wandered
about in the wood, "is to grow to my right size again; and the second
thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be
the best plan."

It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply
arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the smallest idea
how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among
the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a
great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and
feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. "Poor little thing!"
said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it; but
she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be
hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of
all her coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and
held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off
all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick,
and made believe to worry it; then Alice dodged behind a great thistle,
to keep herself from being run over; and the moment she appeared on the
other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head
over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was
very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then
the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very
little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely
all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with
its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape; so she
set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and
till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the distance.

"And yet what a dear little puppy it was!" said Alice, as she leant
against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the
leaves: "I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if--if I'd
only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I'd nearly forgotten that
I've got to grow up again! Let me see--how IS it to be managed? I
suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great
question is, what?"

The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that
looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.
There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as
herself; and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and
behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what
was on the top of it.

She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the
mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar,
that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long
hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else.






The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence:
at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed
her in a languid, sleepy voice.

"Who are YOU?" said the Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied,
rather shyly, "I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--at least I know
who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
changed several times since then."

"What do you mean by that?" said the Caterpillar sternly. "Explain
yourself!"

"I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir" said Alice, "because I'm not
myself, you see."

"I don't see," said the Caterpillar.

"I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly," Alice replied very politely,
"for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and being so many
different sizes in a day is very confusing."

"It isn't," said the Caterpillar.

"Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet," said Alice; "but when you
have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you know--and then
after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll feel it a little
queer, won't you?"

"Not a bit," said the Caterpillar.

"Well, perhaps your feelings may be different," said Alice; "all I know
is, it would feel very queer to ME."

"You!" said the Caterpillar contemptuously. "Who are YOU?"

Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation.
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's making such VERY
short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, "I think,
you ought to tell me who YOU are, first."

"Why?" said the Caterpillar.

Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any
good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a VERY unpleasant
state of mind, she turned away.

"Come back!" the Caterpillar called after her. "I've something important
to say!"

This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.

"Keep your temper," said the Caterpillar.

"Is that all?" said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she
could.

"No," said the Caterpillar.

Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and
perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing. For some
minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its
arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, "So you think
you're changed, do you?"

"I'm afraid I am, sir," said Alice; "I can't remember things as I
used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!"

"Can't remember WHAT things?" said the Caterpillar.

"Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it all came
different!" Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

"Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"" said the Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands, and began:--

   "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
    "And your hair has become very white;
   And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?"

   "In my youth," Father William replied to his son,
    "I feared it might injure the brain;
   But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
    Why, I do it again and again."

   "You are old," said the youth, "as I mentioned before,
    And have grown most uncommonly fat;
   Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
    Pray, what is the reason of that?"

   "In my youth," said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
    "I kept all my limbs very supple
   By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
    Allow me to sell you a couple?"

   "You are old," said the youth, "and your jaws are too weak
    For anything tougher than suet;
   Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
    Pray how did you manage to do it?"

   "In my youth," said his father, "I took to the law,
    And argued each case with my wife;
   And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
    Has lasted the rest of my life."

   "You are old," said the youth, "one would hardly suppose
    That your eye was as steady as ever;
   Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
    What made you so awfully clever?"

   "I have answered three questions, and that is enough,"
    Said his father; "don't give yourself airs!
   Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
    Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!"



"Call it what you like," said the Cat. "Do you play croquet with the
Queen to-day?"

"I should like it very much," said Alice, "but I haven't been invited
yet."

"You'll see me there," said the Cat, and vanished.

Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used to queer
things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been,
it suddenly appeared again.

"By-the-bye, what became of the baby?" said the Cat. "I'd nearly
forgotten to ask."

"It turned into a pig," Alice quietly said, just as if it had come back
in a natural way.


      I set it in a blaze;
     And thence they make a stuff they call
      Rolands" Macassar Oil--
     Yet twopence-halfpenny is all
      They give me for my toil."

     But I was thinking of a way
      To feed oneself on batter,
     And so go on from day to day
      Getting a little fatter.
     I shook him well from side to side,
      Until his face was blue:
     "Come, tell me how you live," I cried,
      "And what it is you do!"

     He said "I hunt for haddocks" eyes
      Among the heather bright,
     And work them into waistcoat-buttons
      In the silent night.
     And these I do not sell for gold
      Or coin of silvery shine
     But for a copper halfpenny,
      And that will purchase nine.

     "I sometimes dig for buttered rolls,
      Or set limed twigs for crabs;
     I sometimes search the grassy knolls
      For wheels of Hansom-cabs.
     And that's the way" (he gave a wink)
      "By which I get my wealth--
     And very gladly will I drink
      Your Honour's noble health."

     I heard him then, for I had just
      Completed my design
     To keep the Menai bridge from rust
      By boiling it in wine.
     I thanked him much for telling me
      The way he got his wealth,
     But chiefly for his wish that he
      Might drink my noble health.

     And now, if e'er by chance I put
      My fingers into glue
     Or madly squeeze a right-hand foot
      Into a left-hand shoe,
     Or if I drop upon my toe
      A very heavy weight,
     I weep, for it reminds me so,
      Of that old man I used to know--

     Whose look was mild, whose speech was slow,
     Whose hair was whiter than the snow,
     Whose face was very like a crow,
     With eyes, like cinders, all aglow,
     Who seemed distracted with his woe,
     Who rocked his body to and fro,
     And muttered mumblingly and low,
     As if his mouth were full of dough,
     Who snorted like a buffalo--
     That summer evening, long ago,
      A-sitting on a gate."


As the Knight sang the last words of the ballad, he gathered up the
reins, and turned his horse's head along the road by which they had
come. "You've only a few yards to go," he said, "down the hill and over
that little brook, and then you'll be a Queen--But you'll stay and
see me off first?" he added as Alice turned with an eager look in the
direction to which he pointed. "I shan't be long. You'll wait and wave
your handkerchief when I get to that turn in the road? I think it'll
encourage me, you see."

"Of course I'll wait," said Alice: "and thank you very much for coming
so far--and for the song--I liked it very much."

"I hope so," the Knight said doubtfully: "but you didn't cry so much as
I thought you would."

So they shook hands, and then the Knight rode slowly away into the
forest. "It won't take long to see him OFF, I expect," Alice said to
herself, as she stood watching him. "There he goes! Right on his head as
usual! However, he gets on again pretty easily--that comes of having so
many things hung round the horse--" So she went on talking to herself,
as she watched the horse walking leisurely along the road, and the
Knight tumbling off, first on one side and then on the other. After
the fourth or fifth tumble he reached the turn, and then she waved her
handkerchief to him, and waited till he was out of sight.

"I hope it encouraged him," she said, as she turned to run down the
hill: "and now for the last brook, and to be a Queen! How grand it
sounds!" A very few steps brought her to the edge of the brook. "The
Eighth Square at last!" she cried as she bounded across,







and threw herself down to rest on a lawn as soft as moss, with little
flower-beds dotted about it here and there. "Oh, how glad I am to get
here! And what IS this on my head?" she exclaimed in a tone of dismay,
as she put her hands up to something very heavy, and fitted tight all
round her head.

"But how CAN it have got there without my knowing it?" she said to
herself, as she lifted it off, and set it on her lap to make out what it
could possibly be.

It was a golden crown.






"Well, this IS grand!" said Alice. "I never expected I should be a Queen
so soon--and I'll tell you what it is, your majesty," she went on in
a severe tone (she was always rather fond of scolding herself), "it'll
never do for you to be lolling about on the grass like that! Queens have
to be dignified, you know!"

So she got up and walked about--rather stiffly just at first, as she was
afraid that the crown might come off: but she comforted herself with the
thought that there was nobody to see her, "and if I really am a Queen,"
she said as she sat down again, "I shall be able to manage it quite well
in time."

Everything was happening so oddly that she didn't feel a bit surprised
at finding the Red Queen and the White Queen sitting close to her, one
on each side: she would have liked very much to ask them how they came
there, but she feared it would not be quite civil. However, there would
be no harm, she thought, in asking if the game was over. "Please, would
you tell me--" she began, looking timidly at the Red Queen.

"Speak when you're spoken to!" The Queen sharply interrupted her.

"But if everybody obeyed that rule," said Alice, who was always ready
for a little argument, "and if you only spoke when you were spoken to,
and the other person always waited for YOU to begin, you see nobody
would ever say anything, so that--"

"Ridiculous!" cried the Queen. "Why, don't you see, child--" here she
broke off with a frown, and, after thinking for a minute, suddenly
changed the subject of the conversation. "What do you mean by "If you
really are a Queen"? What right have you to call yourself so? You can't
be a Queen, you know, till you've passed the proper examination. And the
sooner we begin it, the better."

"I only said "if"!" poor Alice pleaded in a piteous tone.

The two Queens looked at each other, and the Red Queen remarked, with a
little shudder, "She SAYS she only said "if"--"

"But she said a great deal more than that!" the White Queen moaned,
wringing her hands. "Oh, ever so much more than that!"

"So you did, you know," the Red Queen said to Alice. "Always speak the
truth--think before you speak--and write it down afterwards."

"I'm sure I didn't mean--" Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen
interrupted her impatiently.

"That's just what I complain of! You SHOULD have meant! What do you
suppose is the use of child without any meaning? Even a joke should
have some meaning--and a child's more important than a joke, I hope. You
couldn't deny that, even if you tried with both hands."

"I don't deny things with my HANDS," Alice objected.

"Nobody said you did," said the Red Queen. "I said you couldn't if you
tried."

"She's in that state of mind," said the White Queen, "that she wants to
deny SOMETHING--only she doesn't know what to deny!"

"A nasty, vicious temper," the Red Queen remarked; and then there was an
uncomfortable silence for a minute or two.

The Red Queen broke the silence by saying to the White Queen, "I invite
you to Alice's dinner-party this afternoon."

The White Queen smiled feebly, and said "And I invite YOU."

"I didn't know I was to have a party at all," said Alice; "but if there
is to be one, I think _I_ ought to invite the guests."

"We gave you the opportunity of doing it," the Red Queen remarked: "but
I daresay you've not had many lessons in manners yet?"

"Manners are not taught in lessons," said Alice. "Lessons teach you to
do sums, and things of that sort."

"And you do Addition?" the White Queen asked. "What's one and one and
one and one and one and one and one and one and one and one?"

"I don't know," said Alice. "I lost count."

"She can't do Addition," the Red Queen interrupted. "Can you do
Subtraction? Take nine from eight."

"Nine from eight I can't, you know," Alice replied very readily: "but--"

"She can't do Subtraction," said the White Queen. "Can you do Division?
Divide a loaf by a knife--what's the answer to that?"

"I suppose--" Alice was beginning, but the Red Queen answered for her.
"Bread-and-butter, of course. Try another Subtraction sum. Take a bone
from a dog: what remains?"

Alice considered. "The bone wouldn't remain, of course, if I took
it--and the dog wouldn't remain; it would come to bite me--and I'm sure
I shouldn't remain!"

"Then you think nothing would remain?" said the Red Queen.

"I think that's the answer."

"Wrong, as usual," said the Red Queen: "the dog's temper would remain."

"But I don't see how--"

"Why, look here!" the Red Queen cried. "The dog would lose its temper,
wouldn't it?"

"Perhaps it would," Alice replied cautiously.

"Then if the dog went away, its temper would remain!" the Queen
exclaimed triumphantly.

Alice said, as gravely as she could, "They might go different ways." But
she couldn't help thinking to herself, "What dreadful nonsense we ARE
talking!"

"She can't do sums a BIT!" the Queens said together, with great
emphasis.

"Can YOU do sums?" Alice said, turning suddenly on the White Queen, for
she didn't like being found fault with so much.

The Queen gasped and shut her eyes. "I can do Addition, if you give me
time--but I can't do Subtraction, under ANY circumstances!"

"Of course you know your A B C?" said the Red Queen.

"To be sure I do." said Alice.

"So do I," the White Queen whispered: "we'll often say it over together,
dear. And I'll tell you a secret--I can read words of one letter! Isn't
THAT grand! However, don't be discouraged. You'll come to it in time."

Here the Red Queen began again. "Can you answer useful questions?" she
said. "How is bread made?"

"I know THAT!" Alice cried eagerly. "You take some flour--"

"Where do you pick the flower?" the White Queen asked. "In a garden, or
in the hedges?"

"Well, it isn't PICKED at all," Alice explained: "it's GROUND--"

"How many acres of ground?" said the White Queen. "You mustn't leave out
so many things."

"Fan her head!" the Red Queen anxiously interrupted. "She'll be feverish
after so much thinking." So they set to work and fanned her with bunches
of leaves, till she had to beg them to leave off, it blew her hair about
so.

"She's all right again now," said the Red Queen. "Do you know Languages?
What's the French for fiddle-de-dee?"

"Fiddle-de-dee's not English," Alice replied gravely.

"Who ever said it was?" said the Red Queen.

Alice thought she saw a way out of the difficulty this time. "If you'll
tell me what language "fiddle-de-dee" is, I'll tell you the French for
it!" she exclaimed triumphantly.

But the Red Queen drew herself up rather stiffly, and said "Queens never
make bargains."

"I wish Queens never asked questions," Alice thought to herself.

"Don't let us quarrel," the White Queen said in an anxious tone. "What
is the cause of lightning?"

"The cause of lightning," Alice said very decidedly, for she felt quite
certain about this, "is the thunder--no, no!" she hastily corrected
herself. "I meant the other way."

"It's too late to correct it," said the Red Queen: "when you've once
said a thing, that fixes it, and you must take the consequences."

"Which reminds me--" the White Queen said, looking down and nervously
clasping and unclasping her hands, "we had SUCH a thunderstorm last
Tuesday--I mean one of the last set of Tuesdays, you know."

Alice was puzzled. "In OUR country," she remarked, "there's only one day
at a time."

The Red Queen said, "That's a poor thin way of doing things. Now HERE,
we mostly have days and nights two or three at a time, and sometimes
in the winter we take as many as five nights together--for warmth, you
know."

"Are five nights warmer than one night, then?" Alice ventured to ask.

"Five times as warm, of course."

"But they should be five times as COLD, by the same rule--"

"Just so!" cried the Red Queen. "Five times as warm, AND five times
as cold--just as I'm five times as rich as you are, AND five times as
clever!"

Alice sighed and gave it up. "It's exactly like a riddle with no
answer!" she thought.

"Humpty Dumpty saw it too," the White Queen went on in a low voice, more
as if she were talking to herself. "He came to the door with a corkscrew
in his hand--"

"What did he want?" said the Red Queen.

"He said he WOULD come in," the White Queen went on, "because he was
looking for a hippopotamus. Now, as it happened, there wasn't such a
thing in the house, that morning."

"Is there generally?" Alice asked in an astonished tone.

"Well, only on Thursdays," said the Queen.

"I know what he came for," said Alice: "he wanted to punish the fish,
because--"

Here the White Queen began again. "It was SUCH a thunderstorm, you can't
think!" ("She NEVER could, you know," said the Red Queen.) "And part of
the roof came off, and ever so much thunder got in--and it went
rolling round the room in great lumps--and knocking over the tables and
things--till I was so frightened, I couldn't remember my own name!"

Alice thought to herself, "I never should TRY to remember my name in the
middle of an accident! Where would be the use of it?" but she did not
say this aloud, for fear of hurting the poor Queen's feeling.

"Your Majesty must excuse her," the Red Queen said to Alice, taking
one of the White Queen's hands in her own, and gently stroking it:
"she means well, but she can't help saying foolish things, as a general
rule."

The White Queen looked timidly at Alice, who felt she OUGHT to say
something kind, but really couldn't think of anything at the moment.

"She never was really well brought up," the Red Queen went on: "but
it's amazing how good-tempered she is! Pat her on the head, and see how
pleased she'll be!" But this was more than Alice had courage to do.

"A little kindness--and putting her hair in papers--would do wonders
with her--"

The White Queen gave a deep sigh, and laid her head on Alice's shoulder.
"I AM so sleepy?" she moaned.

"She's tired, poor thing!" said the Red Queen. "Smooth her hair--lend
her your nightcap--and sing her a soothing lullaby."

"I haven't got a nightcap with me," said Alice, as she tried to obey the
first direction: "and I don't know any soothing lullabies."

"I must do it myself, then," said the Red Queen, and she began:


   "Hush-a-by lady, in Alice's lap!
   Till the feast's ready, we've time for a nap:
   When the feast's over, we'll go to the ball--
   Red Queen, and White Queen, and Alice, and all!


"And now you know the words," she added, as she put her head down on
Alice's other shoulder, "just sing it through to ME. I'm getting sleepy,
too." In another moment both Queens were fast asleep, and snoring loud.

"What AM I to do?" exclaimed Alice, looking about in great perplexity,
as first one round head, and then the other, rolled down from her
shoulder, and lay like a heavy lump in her lap. "I don't think it EVER
happened before, that any one had to take care of two Queens asleep
at once! No, not in all the History of England--it couldn't, you know,
because there never was more than one Queen at a time. Do wake up, you
heavy things!" she went on in an impatient tone; but there was no answer
but a gentle snoring.

The snoring got more distinct every minute, and sounded more like a
tune: at last she could even make out the words, and she listened so
eagerly that, when the two great heads vanished from her lap, she hardly
missed them.

She was standing before an arched doorway over which were the words
QUEEN ALICE in large letters, and on each side of the arch there was a
bell-handle; one was marked "Visitors" Bell," and the other "Servants"
Bell."

"I'll wait till the song's over," thought Alice, "and then I'll
ring--the--WHICH bell must I ring?" she went on, very much puzzled by
the names. "I'm not a visitor, and I'm not a servant. There OUGHT to be
one marked "Queen," you know--"

Just then the door opened a little way, and a creature with a long beak
put its head out for a moment and said "No admittance till the week
after next!" and shut the door again with a bang.

Alice knocked and rang in vain for a long time, but at last, a very old
Frog, who was sitting under a tree, got up and hobbled slowly towards
her: he was dressed in bright yellow, and had enormous boots on.

"What is it, now?" the Frog said in a deep hoarse whisper.

Alice turned round, ready to find fault with anybody. "Where's the
servant whose business it is to answer the door?" she began angrily.

"Which door?" said the Frog.

Alice almost stamped with irritation at the slow drawl in which he
spoke. "THIS door, of course!"

The Frog looked at the door with his large dull eyes for a minute:
then he went nearer and rubbed it with his thumb, as if he were trying
whether the paint would come off; then he looked at Alice.

"To answer the door?" he said. "What's it been asking of?" He was so
hoarse that Alice could scarcely hear him.

"I don't know what you mean," she said.

"I talks English, doesn't I?" the Frog went on. "Or are you deaf? What
did it ask you?"

"Nothing!" Alice said impatiently. "I've been knocking at it!"

"Shouldn't do that--shouldn't do that--" the Frog muttered. "Vexes it,
you know." Then he went up and gave the door a kick with one of his
great feet. "You let IT alone," he panted out, as he hobbled back to his
tree, "and it'll let YOU alone, you know."

At this moment the door was flung open, and a shrill voice was heard
singing:


   "To the Looking-Glass world it was Alice that said,
   "I've a sceptre in hand, I've a crown on my head;
   Let the Looking-Glass creatures, whatever they be,
   Come and dine with the Red Queen, the White Queen, and me.""


And hundreds of voices joined in the chorus:


  "Then fill up the glasses as quick as you can,
  And sprinkle the table with buttons and bran:
  Put cats in the coffee, and mice in the tea--
  And welcome Queen Alice with thirty-times-three!"


Then followed a confused noise of cheering, and Alice thought to
herself, "Thirty times three makes ninety. I wonder if any one's
counting?" In a minute there was silence again, and the same shrill
voice sang another verse;


  ""O Looking-Glass creatures," quoth Alice, "draw near!
  "Tis an honour to see me, a favour to hear:
  "Tis a privilege high to have dinner and tea
  Along with the Red Queen, the White Queen, and me!""


Then came the chorus again:--


  "Then fill up the glasses with treacle and ink,
  Or anything else that is pleasant to drink:
  Mix sand with the cider, and wool with the wine--
  And welcome Queen Alice with ninety-times-nine!"


"Ninety times nine!" Alice repeated in despair, "Oh, that'll never
be done! I'd better go in at once--" and there was a dead silence the
moment she appeared.

Alice glanced nervously along the table, as she walked up the large
hall, and noticed that there were about fifty guests, of all kinds: some
were animals, some birds, and there were even a few flowers among them.
"I'm glad they've come without waiting to be asked," she thought: "I
should never have known who were the right people to invite!"

There were three chairs at the head of the table; the Red and White
Queens had already taken two of them, but the middle one was empty.
Alice sat down in it, rather uncomfortable in the silence, and longing
for some one to speak.

At last the Red Queen began. "You've missed the soup and fish," she
said. "Put on the joint!" And the waiters set a leg of mutton before
Alice, who looked at it rather anxiously, as she had never had to carve
a joint before.

"You look a little shy; let me introduce you to that leg of mutton,"
said the Red Queen. "Alice--Mutton; Mutton--Alice." The leg of mutton
got up in the dish and made a little bow to Alice; and Alice returned
the bow, not knowing whether to be frightened or amused.

"May I give you a slice?" she said, taking up the knife and fork, and
looking from one Queen to the other.

"Certainly not," the Red Queen said, very decidedly: "it isn't etiquette
to cut any one you've been introduced to. Remove the joint!" And the
waiters carried it off, and brought a large plum-pudding in its place.

"I won't be introduced to the pudding, please," Alice said rather
hastily, "or we shall get no dinner at all. May I give you some?"

But the Red Queen looked sulky, and growled "Pudding--Alice;
Alice--Pudding. Remove the pudding!" and the waiters took it away so
quickly that Alice couldn't return its bow.

However, she didn't see why the Red Queen should be the only one to give
orders, so, as an experiment, she called out "Waiter! Bring back the
pudding!" and there it was again in a moment like a conjuring-trick. It
was so large that she couldn't help feeling a LITTLE shy with it, as she
had been with the mutton; however, she conquered her shyness by a great
effort and cut a slice and handed it to the Red Queen.

"What impertinence!" said the Pudding. "I wonder how you'd like it, if I
were to cut a slice out of YOU, you creature!"

It spoke in a thick, suety sort of voice, and Alice hadn't a word to say
in reply: she could only sit and look at it and gasp.

"Make a remark," said the Red Queen: "it's ridiculous to leave all the
conversation to the pudding!"

"Do you know, I've had such a quantity of poetry repeated to me to-day,"
Alice began, a little frightened at finding that, the moment she opened
her lips, there was dead silence, and all eyes were fixed upon her; "and
it's a very curious thing, I think--every poem was about fishes in some
way. Do you know why they're so fond of fishes, all about here?"

She spoke to the Red Queen, whose answer was a little wide of the mark.
"As to fishes," she said, very slowly and solemnly, putting her mouth
close to Alice's ear, "her White Majesty knows a lovely riddle--all in
poetry--all about fishes. Shall she repeat it?"

"Her Red Majesty's very kind to mention it," the White Queen murmured
into Alice's other ear, in a voice like the cooing of a pigeon. "It
would be SUCH a treat! May I?"

"Please do," Alice said very politely.

The White Queen laughed with delight, and stroked Alice's cheek. Then
she began:


    ""First, the fish must be caught."
  That is easy: a baby, I think, could have caught it.
    "Next, the fish must be bought."
  That is easy: a penny, I think, would have bought it.

    "Now cook me the fish!"
  That is easy, and will not take more than a minute.
    "Let it lie in a dish!"
  That is easy, because it already is in it.

    "Bring it here! Let me sup!"
  It is easy to set such a dish on the table.
    "Take the dish-cover up!"
  Ah, THAT is so hard that I fear I'm unable!

    For it holds it like glue--
  Holds the lid to the dish, while it lies in the middle:
    Which is easiest to do,
  Un-dish-cover the fish, or dishcover the riddle?"


"Take a minute to think about it, and then guess," said the Red Queen.
"Meanwhile, we'll drink your health--Queen Alice's health!" she screamed
at the top of her voice, and all the guests began drinking it directly,
and very queerly they managed it: some of them put their glasses upon
their heads like extinguishers, and drank all that trickled down their
faces--others upset the decanters, and drank the wine as it ran off
the edges of the table--and three of them (who looked like kangaroos)
scrambled into the dish of roast mutton, and began eagerly lapping up
the gravy, "just like pigs in a trough!" thought Alice.

"You ought to return thanks in a neat speech," the Red Queen said,
frowning at Alice as she spoke.

"We must support you, you know," the White Queen whispered, as Alice got
up to do it, very obediently, but a little frightened.

"Thank you very much," she whispered in reply, "but I can do quite well
without."

"That wouldn't be at all the thing," the Red Queen said very decidedly:
so Alice tried to submit to it with a good grace.

("And they DID push so!" she said afterwards, when she was telling her
sister the history of the feast. "You would have thought they wanted to
squeeze me flat!")

In fact it was rather difficult for her to keep in her place while she
made her speech: the two Queens pushed her so, one on each side, that
they nearly lifted her up into the air: "I rise to return thanks--"
Alice began: and she really DID rise as she spoke, several inches; but
she got hold of the edge of the table, and managed to pull herself down
again.

"Take care of yourself!" screamed the White Queen, seizing Alice's hair
with both her hands. "Something's going to happen!"

And then (as Alice afterwards described it) all sorts of things happened
in a moment. The candles all grew up to the ceiling, looking something
like a bed of rushes with fireworks at the top. As to the bottles, they
each took a pair of plates, which they hastily fitted on as wings, and
so, with forks for legs, went fluttering about in all directions: "and
very like birds they look," Alice thought to herself, as well as she
could in the dreadful confusion that was beginning.

At this moment she heard a hoarse laugh at her side, and turned to see
what was the matter with the White Queen; but, instead of the Queen,
there was the leg of mutton sitting in the chair. "Here I am!" cried a
voice from the soup tureen, and Alice turned again, just in time to see
the Queen's broad good-natured face grinning at her for a moment over
the edge of the tureen, before she disappeared into the soup.

There was not a moment to be lost. Already several of the guests were
lying down in the dishes, and the soup ladle was walking up the table
towards Alice's chair, and beckoning to her impatiently to get out of
its way.

"I can't stand this any longer!" she cried as she jumped up and seized
the table-cloth with both hands: one good pull, and plates, dishes,
guests, and candles came crashing down together in a heap on the floor.

"And as for YOU," she went on, turning fiercely upon the Red Queen, whom
she considered as the cause of all the mischief--but the Queen was no
longer at her side--she had suddenly dwindled down to the size of a
little doll, and was now on the table, merrily running round and round
after her own shawl, which was trailing behind her.

At any other time, Alice would have felt surprised at this, but she was
far too much excited to be surprised at anything NOW. "As for YOU,"
she repeated, catching hold of the little creature in the very act of
jumping over a bottle which had just lighted upon the table, "I'll shake
you into a kitten, that I will!"






She took her off the table as she spoke, and shook her backwards and
forwards with all her might.

The Red Queen made no resistance whatever; only her face grew very
small, and her eyes got large and green: and still, as Alice went on
shaking her, she kept on growing shorter--and fatter--and softer--and
rounder--and--






--and it really WAS a kitten, after all.






"Your majesty shouldn't purr so loud," Alice said, rubbing her eyes, and
addressing the kitten, respectfully, yet with some severity. "You
woke me out of oh! such a nice dream! And you've been along with me,
Kitty--all through the Looking-Glass world. Did you know it, dear?"

It is a very inconvenient habit of kittens (Alice had once made the
remark) that, whatever you say to them, they ALWAYS purr. "If they would
only purr for "yes" and mew for "no," or any rule of that sort," she had
said, "so that one could keep up a conversation! But how CAN you talk
with a person if they always say the same thing?"

On this occasion the kitten only purred: and it was impossible to guess
whether it meant "yes" or "no."

So Alice hunted among the chessmen on the table till she had found the
Red Queen: then she went down on her knees on the hearth-rug, and put
the kitten and the Queen to look at each other. "Now, Kitty!" she cried,
clapping her hands triumphantly. "Confess that was what you turned
into!"

("But it wouldn't look at it," she said, when she was explaining the
thing afterwards to her sister: "it turned away its head, and pretended
not to see it: but it looked a LITTLE ashamed of itself, so I think it
MUST have been the Red Queen.")

"Sit up a little more stiffly, dear!" Alice cried with a merry laugh.
"And curtsey while you're thinking what to--what to purr. It saves time,
remember!" And she caught it up and gave it one little kiss, "just in
honour of having been a Red Queen."

"Snowdrop, my pet!" she went on, looking over her shoulder at the White
Kitten, which was still patiently undergoing its toilet, "when WILL
Dinah have finished with your White Majesty, I wonder? That must be the
reason you were so untidy in my dream--Dinah! do you know that you're
scrubbing a White Queen? Really, it's most disrespectful of you!

"And what did DINAH turn to, I wonder?" she prattled on, as she settled
comfortably down, with one elbow in the rug, and her chin in her hand,
to watch the kittens. "Tell me, Dinah, did you turn to Humpty Dumpty? I
THINK you did--however, you'd better not mention it to your friends just
yet, for I'm not sure.

"By the way, Kitty, if only you'd been really with me in my dream, there
was one thing you WOULD have enjoyed--I had such a quantity of poetry
said to me, all about fishes! To-morrow morning you shall have a real
treat. All the time you're eating your breakfast, I'll repeat "The
Walrus and the Carpenter" to you; and then you can make believe it's
oysters, dear!

"Now, Kitty, let's consider who it was that dreamed it all. This is a
serious question, my dear, and you should NOT go on licking your paw
like that--as if Dinah hadn't washed you this morning! You see, Kitty,
it MUST have been either me or the Red King. He was part of my dream,
of course--but then I was part of his dream, too! WAS it the Red King,
Kitty? You were his wife, my dear, so you ought to know--Oh, Kitty, DO
help to settle it! I'm sure your paw can wait!" But the provoking kitten
only began on the other paw, and pretended it hadn't heard the question.

Which do YOU think it was?



         A boat beneath a sunny sky,
         Lingering onward dreamily
         In an evening of July--

         Children three that nestle near,
         Eager eye and willing ear,
         Pleased a simple tale to hear--

         Long has paled that sunny sky:
         Echoes fade and memories die.
         Autumn frosts have slain July.

         Still she haunts me, phantomwise,
         Alice moving under skies
         Never seen by waking eyes.

         Children yet, the tale to hear,
         Eager eye and willing ear,
         Lovingly shall nestle near.

         In a Wonderland they lie,
         Dreaming as the days go by,
         Dreaming as the summers die:

         Ever drifting down the stream--
         Lingering in the golden gleam--
         Life, what is it but a dream?

0
